The fact is we are at war, there is an intense battle to control our minds.
We have the spirit of the world which surrounds us and can, in fact, are thinking.
They have a demon inspired teachings that are at their base.
And then we deal with our own imperfect inclinations.
On top of that, each of us has a traitor within him.
All of us do, our heart, which the Bible describes as more treacherous than anything else.
Now, when we consider the forces that we are fighting against in this war, we could
not possibly win the war on our own, but with help from Jehovah we can't lose.
Now, sadly, the enemy has been able to get some from among us, and these have become
battle casualties.
But as long as we keep on the complete suit of armor, described in the Bible in the book
of Ephesians 6, we are going to avoid becoming a casualty.
There is no secret formula, it is right there in the Scriptures.
And there is one particular part of the armor that relates to our text for today that we
would like to sit here on.
And that is the helmet of salvation.
Now why does the Bible use the expression helmet of salvation?
Well, because just as a soldier was protecting his head, where his brain was, which drives
all of the senses, so the helmet of salvation protects our minds.
The March 2021 watchtower, page 29 says this, Jehovah will protect you, how?
Well just as a literal helmet protects the soldier's head, the hope of salvation protects
our thinking ability.
And that hope keeps us focused on God's promises and helps us to see problems in the right
perspective.
That's a lot to digest.
But think about this.
Thinking ability is not to be confused with independent thinking, which Satan promotes.
One indication of independent thinking is the question, the counsel that we receive
from the visible part of Jehovah's organization through the faithful slave.
For example, God's organization has given us warnings, time and again, about listening
to the type, certain types of music, watching out for photographic material, being very
careful, frequenting clubs and world-late dance halls and the improper use of alcoholic
beverages.
And there are other matters too, but thinking ability will prevent us from rationalizing
that such counsel really doesn't apply to me.
I know how to skirt around the problems that these things might bring.
But unfortunately, there is independent thinking that at times comes from our very fellow
worshipers.
For example, if you ever heard someone say, you're still just a housewife, times have changed.
Why don't you go get a job?
For the expression pioneering is not for everyone.
You need more training and education if you're going to make it into today's world.
Let them tap your talents and skills.
I feel the best way to help my dispelorship relative is to stay in touch with him.
But you know what?
Thinking ability is what protects us from these and other reasonings that don't reflect
your hova's thinking on matters.
And since God created us in His image, it's only logical and realistic that we can have
thinking ability only if we adopt God's way of thinking.
Would you read with me please, Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 7?
Notice, the fear of Jehovah is the beginning of knowledge in the latter part only fools
despise wisdom and discipline.
Now in large, most respond favorably to Jehovah's way of thinking.
That's why we're part of a beautiful organization that is at peace with itself and knows how
to navigate the problems of the world.
We're being trained by Jehovah to use our thinking ability individually but not independently,
so depending on the circumstances, Bible principles generally allow for varying conclusions
on matters.
But when we think independently of God, then that's when we get into trouble.
We give into our own selfish, sinful inclinations.
But we undoubtedly make Jehovah's heart glad when we do what the Bible describes written
by Paul.
If you turn there on your devices to 2 Corinthians chapter 10, notice what he says there in verses
4 and 5 under inspiration.
For the weapons of our warfare are not fleshly but powerful by God for overturning strongly
entrenched things.
For we are overturning reasonings and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge
of God.
And we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ.
Isn't that interesting?
And it's a beautiful thing to see among Jehovah's people in general.
Godly thinking allows us to see the consequences of our actions before we take the action,
whether the consequences are going to be good or bad.
Now the nation of Israel was privileged to have Jehovah's guidance in detail.
But as a whole, what happened?
They refused it.
Moses, if you turn to Deuteronomy chapter 32, Moses there is inspired to say of them in
verses 28 and 29 this, for they are a nation devoid of sense.
We might say common sense, or as the footnote says, death to advice.
And there is no understanding among them, verse 29, if only they were wise, they would
ponder over this, they would think about their outcome.
Isn't that beautiful?
Jehovah allows us to see the outcome of any action that we take.
Now in these last days, thinking ability is being put to the greatest test of all time,
with Satan practicing greater deception than ever before.
One of the helps that Jehovah's organization has provided is the publication scriptures
for Christian living.
And let me read to you what the introduction of that publication says.
This for Christian living will make it easy for you to locate Bible verses and accounts
that can help you deal with the challenges you face.
You will soon find a wealth of relevant and useful counsel, guidance and comfort from
God's work.
What a wonderful privilege we have to be taught by Jehovah.
Final text, Proverbs chapter 3.
This is 21 and 22.
Here's what it says.
Safeguard practical wisdom and thinking ability, they will give you life.